[plugin-rest-api] Align syntax of REST api steps (#3220)
vividus-framework/vividus: docs/modules/plugins/pages/plugin-rest-api.adoc

=== Response code

:http-status-code: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status[HTTP response status code]

Provides the {http-status-code}.

> ==== *Variable name*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Then a JSON element by the JSON path '$.headers.Accept-Language' is equal to '"en-ru"'
----

=== Execute HTTP request with absolute URL

Executes the HTTP request for a resource identified by the absolute URL. The step uses previously set HTTP headers

> and request body. The HTTP response headers, status code and body of the latest executed HTTP call can be accessed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and request body. The HTTP response headers, status code and body can be accessed
```

> by the corresponding steps and dynamic variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
via the corresponding steps and dynamic variables.
```

When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://example.com`
----

=== Execute HTTP request with relative URL

Executes the HTTP request for a resource identified by the URL relative to the base URL specified by the `rest-api.http.endpoint`

> property. The step uses previously set HTTP headers and request body. The HTTP response headers, status code and body of the latest
> executed HTTP call can be accessed by the corresponding steps and dynamic variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
property. The step uses previously set HTTP headers and request body. The HTTP response headers, status code and body can be accessed via the corresponding steps and dynamic variables.
```

----

=== Validate HTTP response code

Compares the {http-status-code} against the expected number.

[source,gherkin]
----
Then response code is $comparisonRule `$responseCode`
----

* `$comparisonRule` - xref:parameters:comparison-rule.adoc[The comparison rule].
* `$responseCode` - The expected {http-status-code}.

.Validate the resource is not found
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://httpbin.org/cfa2fdbc`
Then response code is equal to `404`
----

=== Validate HTTP response time

Compares the HTTP response time against the expected number im millis.

[source,gherkin]
----
Then response time is $comparisonRule `$responseTime` milliseconds
----

* `$comparisonRule` - xref:parameters:comparison-rule.adoc[The comparison rule].
* `$responseTime` - The expected response time in millis.

.Check HTTP response time
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://example.com`
Then response time is less than `1000` milliseconds
----

=== Valdate number of HTTP response headers

:http-response-header: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_header_fields#Response_fields[HTTP response header]

> Validates the number of specified by name HTTP response headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates the number of HTTP response headers filtered by the specified name.
```

[source,gherkin]
----
Then number of response headers with name `$headerName` is $comparisonRule $number
----

* `$headerName` - The {http-response-header} name.
* `$comparisonRule` - xref:parameters:comparison-rule.adoc[The comparison rule].
* `$number` - The expected number of headers.

.Check the browser is forced to use a secure web connection
[source,gherkin]
----
Then number of response headers with name `Strict-Transport-Security` is equal to 1
----

=== Validate HTTP response header value

Compares the header value against the expected value according to the comparison rule.

[source,gherkin]
----
Then value of response header `$headerName` $comparisonRule `$value`
----

* `$headerName` - The {http-response-header} name.
* `$comparisonRule` - xref:parameters:comparison-rule.adoc[The comparison rule].
* `$number` - The expected header value.

.Check HTTP response content type
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://httpbin.org/robots.txt`
Then value of response header `Content-Type` is equal to `text/plain`
----

=== Validate HTTP response header attributes

> Validates that the response header with the specified name contains attributes.

Reviewer: it's needed to describe what attributes are

When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://example.com`
----

=== Execute HTTP request with relative URL

Executes the HTTP request for a resource identified by the URL relative to the base URL specified by the `rest-api.http.endpoint` property.

> 

Reviewer: do not put each sentence as a separate paragraph

Author: the sentences are completely different by their meaning, so why not to separate them logically into paragraphs?

[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP $httpMethod request for resource with relative URL `$relativeURL`
----

* `$httpMethod` - The https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods[HTTP method].
* `$relativeURL` - The relative URL of the resource on the server.

.Configuration
[source,properties]
----
rest-api.http.endpoint=https://httpbin.org
----

.Execute HTTP GET request
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with relative URL `/image/jpeg`
----

=== Compare HTTP response body against resource

Compares the HTTP response body against the xref:ROOT:glossary.adoc#_resource[resource] data accorging to the provided rule.

[source,gherkin]
----
Then response body $validationRule resource at `$resourcePath`
----

* `$validationRule` - The valdation rule, either `is equal to` or `is not equal to`.
* `$resourcePath` - The xref:ROOT:glossary.adoc#_resource[resource] path.

.Compare images
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://httpbin.org/image/png`
Then response body is equal to resource at `/images/pig.png`
----

=== Validate HTTP response code

> Compares the {http-status-code} with the expected number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compares the {http-status-code} against the expected number.
```

Reviewer: here and everywhere else

When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://example.com`
----

==== Relative URL

Executes the HTTP request to access a resource on the server identified by the relative URL.

The base server URL should be set using `rest-api.http.endpoint` property.

The step uses previously set HTTP headers and request body.

The response HTTP headers, response status code and response body can be accessed by the corresponding steps and dynamic variables.

[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP $httpMethod request for resource with relative URL `$relativeURL`
----

* `$httpMethod` - The https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods[HTTP method].
* `$relativeURL` - The relative URL of the resource on the server.

.Configuration
[source,properties]
----
rest-api.http.endpoint=https://httpbin.org
----

.Execute HTTP GET request
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with relative URL `/image/jpeg`
----

=== Compare response body with resource data

> Compares the response body data with the resource data accorging to provided rule.

Reviewer: the same as for title

[source,gherkin]
----
Then response body $validationRule resource at `$resourcePath`
----

* `$validationRule` - The valdation rule, either `is equal to` or `is not equal to`.
* `$resourcePath` - The xref:ROOT:glossary.adoc#_resource[resource] path.

.Compare images
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://httpbin.org/image/png`
Then response body is equal to resource at `/images/pig.png`
----

=== Validate response code

Compares the {http-status-code} with the expected number.

[source,gherkin]
----
Then response code is $comparisonRule `$responseCode`
----

* `$comparisonRule` - xref:parameters:comparison-rule.adoc[The comparison rule].
* `$responseCode` - The expected {http-status-code}.

> .Resource is not found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Validate the resource is not found
```

[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://httpbin.org/cfa2fdbc`
Then response code is equal to `404`
----

> === Validate response time

Reviewer: `response` -> `HTTP response` - everywhere

Compares the response time with the expected number im millis.

[source,gherkin]
----
Then response time is $comparisonRule `$responseTime` milliseconds
----

* `$comparisonRule` - xref:parameters:comparison-rule.adoc[The comparison rule].
* `$responseTime` - The expected response time in millis.

.Check response time
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://example.com`
Then response time is less than `1000` milliseconds
----

=== Valdate number of response headers

> Check the number of specified by name response headers.

Reviewer: `Check` -> `Validates`

The step is still available via `vividus-plugin-rest-api`, but it'll be required
to install `vividus-plugin-json` explicitly starting from VIVIDUS 0.6.0.
====

== Tips & Tricks

=== Validate HTTP response body

In order to validate the body of the latest HTTP response use the <<_response>> dynamic variable to access the body
data in conjunction with any step responsible for data validation like data comparison, JSON, XML and other steps.

.Validate response body
[source,gherkin]
----
When I execute HTTP GET request for resource with URL `https://httpbin.org/json`

> Then `${response}` is equal to `

Reviewer: for JSON comparison it's better to use JSON-specific steps

{
  "slideshow": {
    "author": "Yours Truly", 
    "date": "date of publication", 
    "slides": [
      {
        "title": "Wake up to WonderWidgets!", 
        "type": "all"
      }, 
      {
        "items": [
          "Why <em>WonderWidgets</em> are great", 
          "Who <em>buys</em> WonderWidgets"
        ], 
        "title": "Overview", 
        "type": "all"
      }
    ], 
    "title": "Sample Slide Show"
  }
}`
----

=== Save HTTP response body into variable

> The HTTP response body can be saved into variable by using the xref:commons:vividus-steps.adoc#_initialize_variable[init variable step]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTTP response body can be saved into static variable by using the xref:commons:vividus-steps.adoc#_initialize_variable[init variable step]
```

> in conjunction with the <<_response>> dynamic variable.

Reviewer: please describe an example when this may be needed

|https://saucelabs.com                                  |
|https://vividus-test-site.herokuapp.com/img/vividus.png|
----

> == Tips

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Tips & Tricks
```

> .Validate response body

Reviewer: it makes sense to add some title and description for examples
